[Music]
2013's the lone ranger was disney's
grand master plan to reinvigorate the
blockbuster western genre the same way
they did to the pirate genre with
pirates and the actual essence of their
plan to achieve this was fairly
straightforward click on pirates press
ctrl c click on a desert press ctrl v
and there you go the style of the movie
is the same the feeling of the movie is
the same the people making the movie are
the same overall it's the same so then
obviously great success was inevitable
nothing could possibly go wrong
all those super funny roasting jokes
aside though i do think there is a lot
to enjoy here i love the dry gritty look
of the film i appreciate disney trying
to give us something nobody else after
cowboys and aliens would ever dare to
give us and like i mentioned in my
spider-verse video i really respect the
style of visual reversal comedy they go
for here by playing with assumptions and
reality
the united states army
finally someone will listen to reason
but despite all those positives and
partly even because of them the only
success the lone ranger ever found was
in being a record-breaking flop it cost
well over 300 million dollars to make
and it made back just a bit over 100
million which gives it a somewhat of a
loss of around 200 million us dollars
which by public information makes it the
biggest blockbuster box office bomb of
all time and even though i'm sure
there's multiple factors at play as to
what that is the biggest one that i see
can be stated with just one word that i
just mentioned the word blockbuster see
although the original definition of
blockbuster is any movie that makes a
lot of money like choco for example
today that word has shifted a bit to
mean something else something called
manufactured blockbusters meaning movies
that from the very start are
manufactured with incredibly massive
budgets to appeal to all general
audiences in order to make a lot of
money and when you're creating a
blockbuster movie for general audiences
there's a couple of rules you need to
follow a couple pitfalls you need to
avoid and here comes lone ranger and
literally stumbles into every single one
of them the movie is slow to the point
of getting boring the movie is
convoluted to the point of getting
confusing and nonsensical the movie is
internally conflicted to the point of
having no clear identity whatsoever and
when you put all these together
here's the result and so today let's use
the lone ranger as an example to
investigate this blockbuster pitfalls
closer in order to see what happened
here and how to avoid it in the future
here's how to fail at being a
blockbuster
[Music]
the first big blockbuster crime the lone
ranger commits is being a slow movie
which for general audiences equals a
boring movie i'd say the film does get a
lot better at this toward the end but
the first hour for example is so
excruciatingly sluggish that by the end
of it most moviegoers have already lost
all interest in it and the reason it
feels so sluggish is because it never
introduces a clear strong plot to
encompass what this movie is or why we
should take interest in it the movie
begins in the future where through this
random kid we meet old tonto who serves
as a framing device to tell the story
pretty much nothing happens here but to
be fair it is our doorway into this
world so fair enough acceptable and
after six minutes of that the real movie
finally begins run a man all the way to
state line put him on a train and ship
him right back don't make no sense where
it is cavendish is looking for payback
with you damn
reckon so basically the gist of the
opening is that we have this evil outlaw
butch cavendish being transported to
this town in texas to be hung and we
meet all our central characters as they
wait for the train to arrive and that's
the key issue right there the fact that
we're just waiting for the train to
arrive there's no goal we're chasing no
objective we're trying to complete
nothing we're moving towards there are
some bad guys preparing to spring
cavendish free but our main hero jon for
example has absolutely nothing to do
with that or even any knowledge of
cavendish our other hero tanto does but
at this point we don't know that which
is the same as him not having anything
to do with any of it and we'll get more
into that later so overall the first 18
minutes of the movie is people just
casually waiting and hanging out which
makes it feel like we're sitting in a
rollercoaster ride just waiting for the
ride to start moving until after 18
minutes it finally does anyway
i'm sure we'll be at station any minute
then we get this action sequence on the
train which does help alleviate our
build-up boredom and then as cavendish
has escaped after 30 long minutes the
movie finally actually seems to properly
begin when we finally get our main plot
related goal of going after cavendish
but even now there's still a problem
we're missing the other plot components
of stakes and urgency we have no clue
what evil things cavendish has done or
to who because we've never seen any of
it happen and so why do we need to stop
him why should we be invested in
stopping him what happens if we don't
stop him what are the stakes and in
addition to that why do we have to stop
him right now what's the deadline what's
the urgency the answer is there isn't
one which makes this whole riding after
cavendish section feel very pointless
and boring it's like a roller coaster
ride has finally started moving but only
slowly slides forward an inch at a time
because a movie without stakes emergency
is like a roller coaster without drops
and loops until
[Music]
you take something from me
be damn sure
i'm gonna take something from you
[Music]
once cavendish kills all the rangers and
johnny dip does some more strolling
around jon wakes up from the dead and
the movie begins again as it finally
enters its second act and introduces its
main proper all-encompassing plot now we
have a clear strong personal goal of
stopping cavendish and we have a clear
strong reason to do so because he killed
our brother there's still no real
urgency establish here but to be fair it
does function pretty well even without
it the only problem is that at this
point it's been 50 full minutes and
that's 30 minutes too long because at
this point most of your audience has
already checked out for good and in
blockbusters meant for the masses you
need to streamline this stuff instead of
showing casual moments where characters
just wait you need to actively
personally involve them in situations
instead of starting and restarting the
movie over and over again until it
finally fully starts after 50 minutes
you need to cut out the second start
section of going after cavendish and
fuse it with the opening have our hero
jon be the one bringing cavendish to
town to face justice because he believes
in justice and then when the cavendish
gang shows up to spring him free and jon
fails to prevent that his brother has to
come in with the other rangers to
salvage the mess he made but then that
leads to cavendish killing them now
you've done everything you did in your
current version but in a way that's
instantly clear and interesting and only
takes 25 minutes to get through because
with general audiences you can't afford
to wait 50 minutes for the full ride to
start it needs to start fast and it
needs to start strong
[Music]
the next key issue with the lone ranger
is that it seems to be a bit too smart
for its own good see this film by nature
is very complex there's a bunch of
characters and subplots and all kinds of
narrative stuff going on at once which
in of itself isn't a problem complex is
fine as long as you give the audience
enough red string to be able to follow
along the problem arises when that red
string isn't given and the whole thing
becomes convoluted and thus nonsensical
for example look at our main villain
nathan cole at the beginning we don't
know he's our villain and instead he's
established as a nice sympathetic guy
with the scene he has with the family of
our hero john's brother they don't make
men like your husband anymore in fact i
envy him
find family son to carry on his name
just hate to see a bird in the cage
overall this scene comes off as very
clunky and weird because at this point
the movie has given us no context
whatsoever to understand it what is the
relationship cole has with the wife of
jon's brother why does he think she's a
bird in a cage why do we have this whole
subplot of call wanting to be close with
her and her son obviously the real
answer is because cole is the one behind
her husband being killed and he feels
bad about it but we are given no reason
to think that or anything else until
like an hour and 45 minutes into the
movie and so up until that point this
relationship makes no sense and the only
sensible reason for it to exist seems to
be that the movie is just forcing it to
happen in order to function later plus
there's still the question of why is
khalsa obsessed to make this family his
own and again there is a great answer
it's just so quick and subtle that most
audiences aren't gonna notice it oh no
mr cole no by all reports mr cole is uh
well he is no longer guarded by the same
imperative
mr coleman
come to think of it there was talk of an
incident during the war the full person
defining motivation for coal is the fact
that his wiener was blown off in the war
that's why he wants to make this family
his because he can't create his own
family that's why he has an obsession to
be the most powerful man in existence
because he has a deep insecurity that
him not having a wiener makes him less
than all other men but aside from this
one quick exchange of throwaway lines
the movie never clearly establishes any
of that we don't see scenes showing how
cole struggles to form his own family we
don't see scenes where he's made to feel
less than other men we just hear this
one quick verbal exchange and general
audiences aren't gonna pick up on that
which means that for general audiences
this great three-dimensional person will
come off as just a two-dimensional movie
character which is the same as him being
a two-dimensional movie character and
even though that's just one example the
same mentality applies to pretty much
everything in this movie well if what
you say is true
that would mean i attacked the comanche
for no reason that's right captain
slaughter of the innocents
their blood on your hands
are you capable of that
there's this whole conspiracy supply of
using indian turf silver to gain full
control of the railroads but we don't
even know that conspiracy is going on or
that our villain doesn't already control
the railroads until near the very end
when it's paid off there's a big reveal
where cole turns out to be cavendish's
brother but it doesn't really pack much
power because the movie didn't reveal to
us that there are two evil men until
like 20 minutes ago montanto is trying
to kill cavendish at the start and
blabbing out about windy ghosts and
spirit walkers and whatever for over
half of the movie we have no context for
any of that and it just comes off as
nonsensical and dumb which is a bummer
because the actual explanation for it is
incredibly powerful in exchange for a
cheap pocket watch from sears robot they
both showed them
where the river begins they took what
they could carry but they wanted to keep
the places secret
the boy could not live on what he had
done so he decided the men were
possessed by evil spirits in the silver
he called it wendigo and with general
audiences you need to give out that red
string here for example you should have
cut out the whole framing device opening
that doesn't have anything to do with
current events and instead opened with
the flashback of tanto stripe having
been killed to clearly set up the silver
conspiracy and the horrors of the
windigo so that we understand that these
scenes aren't just nonsense but that
there is something deeper there
obviously don't give us all the answers
but give us enough for us to not only
have a sense of what is going on but
also to have a sense that something is
going on super smart subtlety can be
interesting in smaller indie films but
when you're making a 300 million dollar
blockbuster for the average joe it isn't
something you can really afford
[Music]
the final blockbuster pitfall the lone
ranger stumbles in is a pitfall that
pretty much every blockbuster has a
danger of stumbling in and that is the
fact that because these blockbuster
movies are so massive the talent that
gets involved in them is often powerful
enough to be above the material meaning
that very often there's a danger of the
material changing purely to serve the
needs of the talent to the point where
the material and does the movie loses
the core of what it is for example what
is the main reason the movie begins with
old tonto
with the lone ranger the initial drafts
of the script were written by pirates
fighters terry russio and ted elliot but
when director gore rabinski then felt
like he wanted to add his own flair to
it he brought in another writer to do
just that not to write a brand new
version of the movie because this old
one was already green lit but instead to
just add new stuff on top of it which
led to the result that for most of the
runtime this one movie is actually two
different movies fighting against each
other take the comedy for example as
much as i appreciate the fun visual
stuff verbinski does here a lot of it
just doesn't mix with the more gritty
emotional core of the original version
we get this flashback scene where jon
hears that tanto's whole tribe was
killed because of a mistake he made as a
kid and that his mind was broken as a
result and it is incredibly emotional
but then in the very next scene this
happens exactly
it is a good day to die
yeah well
same to you
what what the [__] so let me get this
straight one minute we have this super
emotional reveal where jon finally
understands tonto as a person and then
the next minute we have a goofy joke
where john is ready to leave tanto for
dead just because he's annoying like
what leaving tanto for dead isn't
something this person who just learned
this highly tragic truth about him would
ever do this goofy moment just doesn't
mix with the scene that precedes it and
instead it just ends up ruining all the
emotional charge we just built up
between these characters same with the
moment where jon stops tanto from
killing cavendish wendigo cut out
brother's heart
where is brothers justice
i'm not a savage the reason john won't
let tanto kill cavendish here is because
he firmly believes in the law and due
process above all else and it is a
pretty strong moment until you remember
that wait a minute didn't we have this
funny joke earlier where jon
accidentally beheaded two of cavendish's
men yeah we did
i'm not a savage
i'm not a savage so then why is he so
adamant to appall the law here he's
already killed two people himself what
integrity is he holding on to anymore
the answer is none because just like
this moment highlights there are two
incompatible versions of the movie
continuously devouring and sabotaging
each other in a way that neither ends up
working another good example of this is
the continuous thematic battle between
fantasy and modernity in the original
script the writers lean very heavily on
all this fantasy stuff about evil
windigo spirits and whatever and you can
see a lot of it in the finished product
[Music]
an evil spirit
born in the empty spaces of the desert
[Applause]
nature is indeed
out of balance but because verbinski
felt like he was less interested in
fantasy and evil spirits and more
interested in the theme of progress and
evils of corporation he then changed the
ultimate direction of the movie to be
more grounded you spoke of her in your
vision lack of oxygen can cause a brain
to hallucinate everyone knows that all
these years i think you are windy
but no you are just another white man
the windigo
nature out of balance just a story right
up to you
and the problem is that because the
movie first introduces all this fantasy
stuff and then never fully commits to it
we never get explanations or any kind of
payoffs to any of it the only payoff we
do get is when the movie at the end just
says that it's up to us whether any of
it was ever real or not and that's not
how that goes you can't use ambiguity to
cover up the fact that your movie never
finishes what it started which is why in
many ways the final product here feels
very much like watching the force
awakens and the last jedi in the same
movie look letting talented people do
their thing is important but that means
actually letting them do their thing
instead of just letting them add their
own flavor on top of existing material
because how can you ever recommend a
movie to someone else when you don't
even know what movie it is you're
recommending how could a movie ever hope
to achieve success at the box office
when it has no identity whatsoever to
achieve that success with and if you
disagree fair enough but let me ask you
this you know who pretty much always
does put material over talent you know
who pretty much always does have talent
serve material instead of the other way
around this one teeny tiny place called
marvel and from what i hear they're
doing pretty well out there better than
this at least
[Music]
[Applause]